I want to share with you briefly
the analysis of the banking sector
and in particular of ING Direct
for, because we will visualize
the value curves of the sector
and will help you understand why
it is such a useful tool to
explain or describe a differentiation,
a competitive advantage.
A differential proposal.
Let us go to the case of the direct.
As I said, the first thing
we have to do is think about
what are the competitive factors
around which, in this case,
the banking industry or the
commercial banking sector
revolves.
And I think, well, let's start.
Security is a major factor,
we almost give it for granted,
but it is clear that if a bank does
not provide you with security,
you would never entrust your
money to them.
The profitability that you offer
for your money, the number of products
or the range of products
that a bank has, a main factor,
also very associated with
a huge investment, is the capillarity
of the offices and cashers
that a bank has.
It has been one of the main
competitive advantages in the
past, because it was the only
distribution channel, the only
way to reach customers.
But there are other factors that
are also highly valued by the
customer and increasingly like
the possibility of making highs
or lows or processes telematically
through the internet, through
phone, etc.
And finally, we left it for the end,
but it is very important, it is
the commissions.
Well, so we're going to draw the
value curve of two banks now
that could really be like BBVA
or as Banks in Tandem, but
well, the truth is we could think
about almost any bank.
What is the value curve?
I think that in terms of safety,
profitability, product range, offices
and cashers are very much
above, they have a great structure
and they provide all
those values.
However, if we go to other values,
such as in this case telematic
highs and lows, well, because
they are improving, but they have
never put, so far they have not
put much focus on it and are
not excessively good, right?
And finally, as far as commissions
are concerned, well, because they charge
the traditional commissions in the
sector, we put it there, right?
And now what we're going to do is
let's draw the curve of ING Direct
and let's understand the differentiation,
right?
The basic values of safety
and profitability are
the same or very similar.
As for product range, it may
have less range of products,
what is clear in the great differentiation
is that the curve
is very different in terms
of product range.
Initially, it didn't have offices,
now it has very little presence, it
has invested very little in that,
so the value as we have seen in
the curve is very low, right?
The value offered is very low, however,
it compensates because it offers
a lot of value through agile,
comfortable processes, etc.
Well, that, via phone, via internet,
what we have called high and
low telematics, but well, you
understand the concept, right?
And there the curve is much higher
and this change also allows
you to offer much lower
commissions.
Well, as we see, it is clear that ING
has sought its hole, it has
sought its differentiation, right?
It has a different value proposition
than others.
There would be...
We can argue whether it is low
cost or differentiation, well, because...
I don't have it so clear because there
are people, effectively, offer a smaller
commission, but there is a segment
of customers that does not value,
does not perceive any value in the capillary
of the offices of restaurants because
they do not want to go to the
office, what they want to do
is the processes in a telematic way.
That is, well, in any case, what
you have created is a value
proposal different from the others
that a segment of customers
convinces you.
And that has been or that was,
originally, the key to the success, the
enormous success and the enormous
growth that ING had.